(at) full throttle, Idiom, /(æt) fʊl ˈθrɒtəl/ ; moving or progressing as fast as possible, She was roaring up the freeway at full throttle., S polnim plinom je drvela po avtocesti.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder, Idiom, /ˈæbsəns meɪks ðə hɑːt ɡrəʊ ˈfɒndə/ ; When people we love are not with us, we love them even more, s far as my own experience goes, this is a case in which absence makes the heart grow fonder., Po mojih izkušnjah je to primer, ko odsotnost povzroči, da nekoga še bolj pogrešaš.
aggravate, Verb, /ˈæɡ.rə.veɪt/ ; to make a disease worse, The treatment only aggravated the condition., Terapija je le poslabšala stanje.
as old as the hills, Idiom, /əz əʊld əz ðə hɪlz/ ; My grandfather seemed as old as the hills to me., as old as the hills, star kot zemlja.
assuage, Verb, /əˈsweɪdʒ/ ; make unpleasant feelings less strong, The government has tried to assuage the public's fears., Vlada je poskušala ublažiti strahove javnosti.
at each other's throats, Idiom, /æt iːʧ ˈʌðəz θrəʊts/ ; if two people are at each other's throats, they are arguing angrily, Those two are always at each other's throats., Ta dva se vedno prepirata.
audit, Noun, UK: /ˈɔː.dɪt/, US: /ˈɑː.dɪt/ ; an official examination of the accounts of a business, An internal audit uncovered £11.5 million in payments to dead beneficiaries., Notranja revizija je razkrila 11,5 milijona funtov izplačil umrlim upravičencem.
average Joe, Noun, Idiom, /ˈævᵊrɪʤ ʤəʊ/ ; an ordinary, typical person, He says it takes him longer than the average Joe to get ready for work., Pravi, da se za delo pripravlja dlje kot kot povprečen človek.
bait & switch, Idiom, /beɪt/ /ænd/ /swɪʧ/ ; Zdi se mu, da so mnogi posredniki uporabljali strategijo »vaba in zamenjava«, privabljali stranke z nizkimi obrestmi in provizijami, nato pa so te stroške proti datumu zaključka posla zvišali., It seems to him that many brokers have been doing a bait-and-switch, luring customers with low rates and fees, then increasing those costs near the closing date., Zdi se mu, da so mnogi posredniki uporabljali strategijo »vaba in zamenjava«, privabljali stranke z nizkimi obrestmi in provizijami, nato pa so te stroške proti datumu zaključka posla zvišali.
calibre, Noun, UK: /ˈkæl.ɪ.bər/, US: /ˈkæl.ə.bɚ/ ; the quality of someone or something, especially someone's ability, If teaching paid more it might attract people of (a) higher calibre., Če bi bilo poučevanje bolje plačano, bi lahko privabilo ljudi višjega kova.
Calumny, Noun, /ˈkæl.əm.ni/ ; (the act of making) a statement about someone that is not true and is intended to damage the reputation of that person, He was subjected to the most vicious calumny, but he never complained and never sued., Bil je podvržen najgroznejšim klevetam, vendar se ni nikoli pritoževal in nikoli tožil.
Chinese whispers, Idiom, /tʃaɪˈniːz ˈwɪspəz/ ; Chinese whispers, Chinese whispers, gluhi telefoni
comprise, Verb, UK: /kəmˈpraɪz/ ; to have things or people as parts or members; to consist of, The course comprises a class book, a practice book, and a CD., Tečaj vključuje učbenik, delovni zvezek in zgoščenko.
double-edged sword, Noun, Idiom, /ˌdʌbəlˈɛdʒd sɔːd/ ; an event or phenomenon whose negative effect is inseparable from a positive one, Too much IT, however, can be a double-edged sword., Preveč IT-ja pa je lahko dvorezen meč.
embodiment, Noun, /ɪmˈbɒd.i.mənt/ ; someone or something that represents a quality or an idea exactly, She was portrayed in the papers as the embodiment of evil., V časopisih so jo prikazovali kot utelešenje zla.
factitious, Adjective, /fækˈtɪʃ.əs/ ; artificial rather than natural, The excitement was largely factitious and confined to the media., Navdušenje je bilo v veliki meri izumetničeno in omejeno na medije.
flair, Noun, /fleər/ ; natural ability to do something well, He has a flair for languages., Nadarjen je za jezike.
have nothing to lose, Idiom, /hæv ˈnʌθɪŋ tuː luːz/ ; to be in a situation that could improve by doing something and that will not be any worse if you fail at it, He had nothing to lose, so he accepted the offer, Ničesar ni imel izgubuti, zato je sprejel ponudbo.
invidiously, Adverb, /ɪnˈvɪd.i.əs.li/ ; In a way that is likely to cause unhappiness or be unpleasant, especially because of being unfair, It is not ethical to take a benefit that is indiviously denied to other people., Ni etično izkoristiti ugodnosti, ki je drugim ljudem krivično odtegnjena.
keep up with the Joneses, Idiom, /kiːp ʌp wɪð ðə ˈdʒəʊnzɪz/ ; If you say that someone is keeping up with the Joneses, you mean that they are doing something in order to show that they have as much money as other people, rather than because they really want to do it, Many people were holding down three jobs just to keep up with the Joneses., Številni so opravljali po tri službe, da so lahko tekmovali s sosedi.
not be someone's cup of tea, Idiom, /nɒt biː ˈsʌmwʌnz kʌp ɒv tiː/ ; If something is not your cup of tea, it is not the type of thing that you like, Thanks for inviting me, but ballet, isn't really my cup of tea.
oeuvre, Noun, /dictionary.cambridge.org/ ; the complete works of a writer, painter, or other artist., I'm not familiar with his oeuvre., Nisem seznanjen z njegovim delom.
off-screen, Adverb, UK: /ˌɒfˈskriːn/ ; (of a perfomer,, adverb, assumed
over your head, Idiom, /ˈəʊvə jɔː hɛd/ ; too difficult or strange for you to understand, I tried to take in what he was saying about nuclear fusion, but most of it went over my head., Poskušal sem dojeti, kaj je govoril o jedrski fuziji, vendar mi je bila večina nedoumljiva.
poisoned chalice, Idiom, /ˌpɔɪ.zənd ˈtʃæl.ɪs/ ; Something that seems very good when it is first received, but in fact does great harm to the person who receives it., The leadership of the party turned out to be a poisoned chalice., Vodstvo stranke se je izkazalo za slabo, čeprav se je zdelo dobro.
put your money where your mouth is, Idiom, /pʊt jɔː ˈmʌni weə jɔː maʊθ ɪz/ ; to give practical support to causes or activities that you believe are right, especially by giving money, If the minister is so keen on the school he should put his money where his mouth is and give us more resources., Če je minister tako navdušen nad šolo, bi moral izpolniti svoje obljube in nam dati več sredstev.
run of the mill, Adjective, UK: /ˌrʌn.əv.ðəˈmɪl/ ; ordinary and not special or exciting in any way, He gave a fairly run-of-the-mill speech., Imel je precej povprečen govor.
Scale back/down (something), Verb, /ˈskeɪl bæk ˈsʌmθɪŋ/ or /ˈskeɪl daʊn ˈsʌmθɪŋ/ ; To reduce something in size, amount, or production:, scale back, zmanjšati
slop, Noun, /slɒp/ ; Content on the internet that is of very low quality, especially when it is created by artificial intelligence, AI slop is slowly killing the internet., UI smeti počasi uničujejo internet.
soft power, Idiom, /'soft pauə/ ; the use of a country's cultural and economic influence to persuade other countries to do something, rather than the use of military power, When it comes to soft power, Germany is now one of the most powerful nations on earth, Ko gre za mehko moč, je Nemčija zdaj ena najmočnejših držav na svetu.
something hangs in the balance, Idiom, /ˈsʌmθɪŋ hæŋz ɪn ðə ˈbæləns/ ; It means that a result of a situation has not been decided yet, The game hang in the balance until the last seconds., Tekma je visela na nitki do zadnjih sekund.
Splurge, Verb, /splɜrdʒ/ ; to spend a lot of money on buying goods, especially expensive goods, I can happily splurge 3,000 dollars in one day., Z veseljem lahko zapravim 3000 dolarjev v enem dnevu.
spoof, Noun, UK: /spuːf/ ; a funny and silly piece of writing, music, theatre, etc. that copies the style of an original work, It was a spoof cowboy film., Šlo je za parodijo na kavbojske filme.
take on a life of its own, Idiom, /teɪk ɒn ə laɪf əv ɪts əʊn/ ; to become very large, important, or hard to control, The story took on a life of its own and began to appear on news broadcasts everywhere., Zgodba je zaživela svoje življenje in se začela pojavljati v informativnih oddajah po vsem svetu.
the brunt of something, Idiom, /ðə brʌnt əv ˈsʌmθɪŋ/ ; The worst problems caused by something, He claimed that the middle class would bear the brunt of the tax increase., Trdil je, da bo srednji razred trpel zadnji udarec zvišanja davkov.
trigger warning, Noun, UK: /ˈtrɪɡ.ə ˌwɔː.nɪŋ/ ; a statement at the beginning of a piece of writing, before the startof a film, etc., warning people that they may find the content very upsetting, especially if they have experienced something similar, ENG: Trigger, warnings
utter, Adjective, /ˈʌt.ər/ ; complete or extreme, The meeting was an utter waste of time., Sestanek je bil popolna potrata časa.
walk a fine line (between something and something), Verb, UK: /wɔːk ə 'faɪn laɪn/ ; to be in a difficult situation when you have a choice between doing one thing and doing another, often where one action is acceptable and one is not, or the two actions are opposed to each other:, verbal, There are no
walk a tightrope, Idiom, /wɔːk ə ˈtaɪtˌroʊp/ ; to be in a difficult situation where you must be very careful about what you do or say, because you are trying to satisfy opposing groups, He is walking a tightrope between the young activists and the more traditional elements within the democracy movement., Hodi po tanki vrvi med mladimi aktivisti in bolj tradicionalnimi elementi znotraj demokratičnega gibanja.
Walk on eggshells, Idiom, /wɔːk ɒn ˈɛɡʃɛlz/ ; To be very cautious or diplomatic for fear of upsetting someone, Healthy or sick, good days or bad, I felt I was always walking on eggshells around him., Bolna ali zdrava, v dobrih ali slabih trenutkih, vedno sem imela občutek, da moram hoditi okoli njega kot po jajcih.